Weak maps are to maps as weak sets are to set.
So in other words we can use weak maps to store these weak references to objects.
That way if we ever decide to get rid of the object and it no longer exists we can get rid of all of
our references to it thus preventing memory leaks because if we hold onto a reference longer than we're
supposed to.
Well that's called a memory leak.
Probably one of the biggest cases where you'll see this being used along with weak maps is if someone
is storing a reference to an object that is supposed to sort of represent a dom element.
In that case you're going to want to hold onto that object reference until you don't need it anymore.
Like for example if the DOM element is deleted at that point you don't want to hold on to that reference
to the DOM element.
So you want to make sure that you have a weak reference to it so you don't interfere with garbage collection
and it can be deleted.
So what we'll do is inside of our DML we'll go ahead and make a div called element like so and we'll
say that then we're going to save a reference to it and also make a weak map.
So first we'll make a weak map weak map like so and we'll do a new weak map like that.
And then after that we'll go ahead and make a element's reference so we'll do document doc queries selector
wherever my queries are like there is.
There it is.
And it will just select the element like so.
Now if I go ahead and put this in here which would be easy.
One thing to remember is that every key must be an object inside of a week map.
And the other important thing to keep in mind is that the keys are weak references to the object.
If you store an object as a value inside of a week map that is still a strong reference only the keys
are actual weak references to objects.
So in this case I'll go ahead and do week map dots and I'll use elements as the key and then I'll call
it something like.
And all associated with a value like original elements like so.
Now if I get rid of this element like for example if I do elements dot parent node dot child removed
child and pass in the element.
This will remove it from the DOM and then if I try to get the elements like so
let me go ahead and wrap this inside of a console log right here.
One moment please.
There we go.
You can see it still has that reference right there but if I hollow out this object do you.
Elements equals no.
And then I copy my cancelled out log them bring it down here you'll see that the reference is no longer
held onto.
So as long as I get rid of the object reference inside of my script it will automatically be removed
from my map.